hey it's Joe tomography wet head pump
repair.com
alright welcome back to another special
edition of the Hayward EC 40
diatomaceous earth pool pump filter
repair series alright this video is
sponsored by pool and spa dot-com all
right so in this video today we're gonna
be talking about the hayward filter gage
and how you remove it and reinstall it
okay so maybe you have a bad filter gage
or maybe you just want to change your
filter glaze for no apparent reason or
maybe you just like watching videos in
YouTube who knows okay but in this video
we're gonna be showing you how to change
a filter gage on a hayward EC 40 pool
filter okay first you want to do is hit
the subscribe button right below the
videos that way you get the latest and
the greatest videos delivered to your
inbox daily or weekly when we publish a
new one that way they save you a lot of
money or pools and your spot if you need
pool pump parts or you need a new filter
please visit pool and spa dot-com
alright so let's get started the first
thing you need to only need here your
need is really your hands okay you're
gonna take your hand and gonna grab the
gage you really don't want to take a
pair of pliers even though it's an old
gage because it's a bad habit and if you
take a pair of pliers you can crack the
new gage installing it you just want to
take your hand take a firm grip and you
want to turn it counterclockwise and
start on spinning the edge just like
this okay counter clockwise you might be
8 9 here's number 10 I've talked about
10 spins okay there you go just like how
many licks does it take to get to the
center of a Tootsie Pop
well how many turns it'll take to get
the hayward gauge off well the answer is
10 volts ok so once you do that you want
to rewrap your new gauge with teflon
tape ok and then what you want to do now
is going to turn the new gauge clockwise
and you're gonna put it in back into the
threads there you go take the male part
of the gauge and stick it with a female
part of the filter tank and you're gonna
spin in the clockwise fashion alright
here we go we're going to take the male
part of the threads we're gonna stick it
into the female part of the filter just
like that we're going to turn in the
clockwise direction like so and that's
it
the filter gauge is now installed ok
there you go you just want to make sure
you line it up to where you
some people like it this way or that way
some people like look at it until you
notice a 45-degree angle line up
wherever you want and there you go
okay that's how you so the filter gauge
remember if you need a new pool or spa
filter go to pool and spa comm if you
need a bearing or seal kit for your pool
pump or something like that you could
visit wet head pump repair cop alright
thanks for watching check it out check
out all the other videos we have on
YouTube over seven hundred or something
videos like that we'll be glad to help
you thanks a lot
peace